---
layout: post
title:  "Reading Assignment 2"
date:   2019-09-05 15:37:48 -0600
categories: posts
---

The Inmates are Running the Asylum – Chapter 9, Personas

Cooper states that "I am shooting for believability, not diversity," in arguing that in designing for a computer technician, one should imagine a (presumably) white, geeky male as opposed to a woman who is physically attractive and tall. 
This is problematic in many ways, one of which is perpetuating stereotypes that are harmful and replicate systems of oppression. 
In creating and imagining a persona, Cooper has succesfully argued that one should be precise. 
However, the type of details with which one is precise matters.
One should not be making caustic assumptions regarding demographics of your "users" that are not important. 
If we are designing for a computer technician, it does not matter whether they used to be the president of the AV club in high school or they were the prom king/queen (which should be noted are not mutually exclusive).
Nor does it matter how physically attractive they are.
What matters is how their position as a computer technician influences the way that they will interact with the product.

In creating personas for my research project, I aimed to keep all descriptions gender-neutral, making sure I used they/them pronouns and giving each persona a gender-neutral name.
In doing so, I was able to ensure that no biases about teachers and mathematics regarding gender would creep into our work, which is especially important given that we are seeking to create – at the heart of our research – an equitable classroom setting. 
Furthermore, by not focusing on irrelevant aspects, we were able to drill down to the core issues with which our personas were concerned.